+++
author = "kandelvijaya"
date = "2016-10-15T13:53:43+02:00"
description = "Powerful terminal."
tags = ["terminal","cli"]
title = "Installing Powerline-Status OSX"
published = "false"
+++

_Okay enough talk_, lets install the `powerline-status` first off. Im assuming, you are using OSX. For other platforms, please refer to the githublink and the [documentation page](https://powerline.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

~~Cool, now lets install `python3`. _I tried using systems Python2.7 but for some weird reason i want able to make powerline-status working for 4 hours. Then i switched gears._~~ Maybe in some other issues too. 

Python comes with pip. Make sure we are using the right `python` version by issuing this command.

    $ which python

which should output, `/usr/local/bin/python`


Check that you have `python` 2.7 or above.

    $ python --version

If not go ahead and get python from `brew` sunig `$ brew install python` or `$ brew install python3`

#### NOTE:

We and `powerline-status` wants `powerline-status` to be installed at this location:

    /usr/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/powerline/

However, if you are using systems `python` then its highly suggested to try out once and see where `pip` installs the powerline tools. 
    
    $ pip install powerline-status
    $ pip show powerline-status    #watch out for location

If the location is `/usr/local/lib.....` then head over to __After installing powerline__

    $ pip uninstall powerline-status

If you were using `brew` to manage other software and python already, chances are if you run 

    $ brew doctor

It complains about various `$PATH` and `linking problems`, which typically includes some package for python too. Previosuly python used to store downloaded scripts into `~/Library/Python/....` but in the recent times it will put into `/usr/local/bin/python/....`. So now go on and fix all those warnings given by Homebrew. 

Hurray, you took the time to fix those issues. Issue this command just to be 100% python will put the downloaded script where we want to.

    $ export PATH=/usr/local/sbin:$PATH

OKAY, lets finally install powerline-status.

    $ pip install --user powerline-status


### After installing powerline

To see where it was installed, issue this command and copy the installed path.

    $ pip show powerline-status

Add the following line at the end of the file. Replace `{installed path}`` with the path we copied above using `pip show powerline-status`
    
    source {installed path}/powerline/bindings/zsh/powerline.zsh

Now your agnoster theme is not present but powerline theme is. It looks similar but its not agnoster. If you need agnoster, then comment out this line in `.zshrc` file.  __OR__ you might have got _no such file or directory error_. Either way dont panic. We will soon get rid off it. 