+++
author = "kandelvijaya"
date = "2017-04-30T00:45:00+02:00"
description = "Intercepting Network Calls to Test!!!"
tags = ["URLProtocol", "Swift3", "TDD"]
title = "Testing Network Calls with URLProtocol"

+++

URLProtocol and Unit Testing
============================


>An NSURLProtocol object handles the loading of protocol-specific URL data. The NSURLProtocol class itself is an abstract class that provides the infrastructure for processing URLs with a specific URL scheme. You create subclasses for any custom protocols or URL schemes that your app supports.

The main point is:

>All you have to do is define your protocol class and call the **registerClass(_:)** class method during your app’s launch time so that the system is aware of your protocol.

The bright idea in me was: what if I have a custom MockURLProtocol class which will intercept and store all requests. Thereby, during unit test; I could register this custom class and test the application logic without ever hitting the network layer (the wire/less).

>Tests should be fast and reliable.

This approach could be perfect candidate. But I found the hard way that this was not possible for every cases. Nonetheless, I wrote this post just to highlight first: the **URLProtocol** itself and second, lacking documentation for this **behaviour.**

## The custom MockURLProtocol
Subclassing the `URLProtocol` is straightforward.

1. `canInit(with: URLRequest)` is called to check if the Protocol can handle given kind of request.
2.  If it can, then `canonicalRequest(` is called. For starters, we are returning the same request here.
3.  Then comes the actual fetching part. This are handled by `startLoading()` which is responsible to do all it can to fetch remote content. `stopLoading()` can be called to either cancel or mark completion.

Here is a basic subclass implementation. Keep in mind, we are not interested to fetch content but rather to intercept the request that would otherwise be used to make actual fetch.

```swift
final class MockURLProtocol: URLProtocol {

    static var lastTriedRequest: [URLRequest] = []

    override class func canInit(with request: URLRequest) -> Bool {
        lastTriedRequest.append(request)
        return false
    }

    override class func canonicalRequest(for request: URLRequest) -> URLRequest {
        return request
    }

    override func startLoading() {
        //do nothing
    }

    override func stopLoading() {
        //do nothing
    }

}
```


## Registering custom URLProtocol
After all, we need to tell the URL Loading system to use our custom protocol.

### .registerClass() documentation
>When the URL loading system begins to load a request, each registered protocol class is consulted in turn to see if it can be initialized with the specified request. The first NSURLProtocol subclass to return true when sent a **canInit(with:)** message is used to perform the URL load. There is no guarantee that all registered protocol classes will be consulted.
**Classes are consulted in the reverse order of their registration**. A similar design governs the process to create the canonical form of a request with canonicalRequest(for:).



And here is **one** way of registering custom protocol class only for the test target.
```swift
class TestingAppDelegate: AppDelegate {

    override func application(_ application..., didFinishLaunchingWithOptions ...) -> Bool {
        URLProtocol.registerClass(MockURLProtocol.self)
        return true
    }

}
```


I actually prefer to register the mock protocol class at the site of use. So my preferred way is to register in each **testcase**.

## Unit Tests and the Catch

```swift
import XCTest
@testable import yourNiceTarget
import Alamofire

final class NativeContentEndpointTests: XCTestCase {

    override func setUp() {
        super.setUp()
        MockURLProtocol.lastTriedRequest = []
    }

    func testWhenConfigProtocolClassIsExplicitlyModified_thenRequestIsIntercepted() {
        let url = URL(string: "www.google.com")!

	//1
        let config = URLSessionConfiguration.default
        config.protocolClasses = [MockURLProtocol.self]

        let session = URLSession(configuration: config)
        let task = session.dataTask(with: url)
        task.resume()

	//2
        sleep(1)

        XCTAssertNotNil(MockURLProtocol.lastTriedRequest.last?.url)
        XCTAssertEqual(url, MockURLProtocol.lastTriedRequest.last?.url!)
    }
```
1. This is how we could specify explicitly to use our custom URLProtocol subclass.
2. `sleep(1)` might not be required. Its used here assuming that there might
   be delay on request execution.


```swift
    func testWhenURLProtocolIsRegisteredGlobally_thenRequestIsNotIntercepted() {
        let url = URL(string: "www.google2.com")!

	//1
        URLProtocol.registerClass(MockURLProtocol.self)

        let session = URLSession(configuration: .default)
        let task = session.dataTask(with: url)
        task.resume()

        sleep(1)
        XCTAssertNil(MockURLProtocol.lastTriedRequest.last?.url)
    }
```
1. This is how one would register URLProtocol subclass globally. However, `URLSession` and its
   counterpart API wont respect this value.

```swift

    func testWhenURLProtocolIsRegistedGloballyWhileUsingAlamofire_thenRequestIsNotIntercepted() {
        /*
         *  Although we registerd our custom URLProtocol and as per the documentation
         *  the last one will be searched first for -canInit(:)
         *  However, with the introduction of URLSession and URLSessionConfiguration,
         *  things changed.
         *
         *  Reason: The registerClass method registers a protocol with NSURLConnection
         *  and with the shared session only
         *  See link: http://stackoverflow.com/a/38560677/2419589
         *
         *  Apple docs for URLProtocol.register(:) fails to document this behavior and
         *  hence I had to painfully pull my hair for several hours in vain.
         *
         */

        URLProtocol.registerClass(MockURLProtocol.self)

        //uses Alamofire
        HTTPManager().loadNativeContent(template: "test-page") { _ in }

        sleep(1)
        XCTAssertNil(MockURLProtocol.lastTriedRequest.last?.url)
    }


}


```

## Conclusion

>If we don't explicitly set the **protocolClasses** for the **URLSessionConfiguration** that we would use to create **URLSession**, our custom protocol class would not intercept network requests.

Each `URLSessionConfiguration` (`default`, `ephemeral` ) searches the list of system provided default URL Protocols, our custom subclass wont be looked up by default. Testing apps using third party networking library require us to inject `protocolClasses` into the sessionConfiguration object. This is not straightforward as we have to dissect third party  dependencies.

Our app uses [**Alamofire**](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire) for networking.  Alamofire internally uses the new APIs: `NSURLSession` constructed with one of `NSURLSessionConfiguration`. How would we add `protocolClasses` to this configuration object given this is a third party library. Its possible but is it worth it?

Hence, this approach of trying to Unit Test was a failure for our case.

**Alamofire** internally uses the same approach of subclassing `URLProtocol` to test the `SessionManager` object **internally**. If you are interested here is the [link for the Github Issue and Discussion](https://github.com/Alamofire/Alamofire/issues/1160).
